---
date: 2024-06-17
title: 1. Sparks before the Fire
---

***This page is for the gamemaster only.***

## Quick Notes

- Father Peter Freitag - pastor from in Ybbrinth.
- Robert Aust - young boy participated in singing contest with Grum.
- Meneldorf Stephen - Felt ill and was replaced by Iorathrus.
- Grum's parents are magically still alive. Heading for Wickerpool.
- Shamash Vrondiss is Mehen's uncle. Works at L'Arc Chantante as a cleric overseeing trainees. Met with Mehen's father days ago.

## Pre-Session Notes

- Need player character sheets ready before session.
- Players start game in different places depending on backstory
	- Default 1: Players start at bridge into the monastery.
	- Default 2: Players start at a store of their choice in town.
	- Default 3: Players start in the stalls at the festival.
 - Split party into 2 - 3 groups.
	 - Mr. Sacks, Cam's character
	 - Grum
	 - Iorathrus
### To do:
 - [x] Festival Games
	 - (Do at least 2, more if well liked. Each is a 2 success 3 failure DC 12 challenge, + checks get +4 bonus, - checks get -4 penalty):
	 - Dunk tank
		 - +2 Str (Athletics), Cha (Performance)
		 - -2 Dex
	 - Ring Toss
		 - +2 Dex (Acrobatics), Cha (Deception)
		 - -2 Str
	 - Frankfurter eating competition
		 - +2 Con (Athletics), Wis (Insight)
		 - -4 Cha
	 - Trivia Quiz
		 - +2 Int (Arcana), Dex (Sleight of Hand)
		 - -2 Str
	 - Singing competition
		 - +2 Cha (Performance), Wis (Insight)
		 - -2 Str
	 - [x] Game 1
	 - [x] Rigged game (***On the 2nd game***, add +6 to DC until someone passes a Wis (Perception) DC 10 check to call out the proprietor's cheating)
	 - [x] ? Game 3+
 - [x] Dinner
	 - [x] Get food
		 - Free food
			 - Ground beef steaks, razorvine legumes, mandrake potatoes, leftover frankfurters from the competition, fresh sourdough bread, and a popsicle in the shape of an ellipse.
			 - Served by [Ilske Dietingen](../../../creature/unique/npc/trade/wounded-coast/dietingen-ilske.md) and [Mother Wilhelmina Yrstrone](../../../creature/unique/npc/faith/wounded-coast/yrstrone-wilhelmina.md)
		 - Food stalls
			 - Schnitzel by Klemens Heilbronn
			 - Käsespätzle by Janik Fresenius
			 - Roast boar by Josefine Krauser
			 - Kartoffelpuffer and knödel by Emily Amsel
			 - Döner by Ines Alt
			 - Bretzeln by Alois Pröll
	 - [x] At least one group finds themselves seated next to [Huntmaster Stanislav Utěkal](../../../creature/unique/npc/trade/wounded-coast/utekal-stanislav.md)
		 - [x] Talk about potential sightings of a hydra in nearby hills
		 - [x] Briefly mention [Earl Nolthe Torbogenfällt](../../../creature/unique/npc/govern/wounded-coast/torbogenfallt-nolthe.md) avoiding him
 - [x] Fireworks
	 - [x] [Mother Wilhelmina Yrstrone](../../../creature/unique/npc/faith/wounded-coast/yrstrone-wilhelmina.md) asks one group of players to act as bucket brigade in case of fire.
		 - She indicates where the nearest well or cistern is to each of the cathedral entrance, the forest, the festival grounds, and the church dorm and admin buildings.
		 - There are multiple water barrels inside the church to fight fires with.
	 - [x] [Earl Nolthe Torbogenfällt](../../../creature/unique/npc/govern/wounded-coast/torbogenfallt-nolthe.md) gives a speech.
 - [ ] Sleeping arrangements:
	 - Locations:
		 - In L'Arc Chantante itself.
		 - In the church dorms.
		 - In the camping area.
		 - In L'Arc Petite.
	 - Free toothbrush sticks
	 - Ask each party member what they dream of the day before their adventure begins.
 - [ ] Breakfast
	 - Free
		 - Served by [Ilske Dietingen](../../../creature/unique/npc/trade/wounded-coast/dietingen-ilske.md) and [Mother Wilhelmina Yrstrone](../../../creature/unique/npc/faith/wounded-coast/yrstrone-wilhelmina.md)
		 - Eggs, sausage, bread in many shapes and colours.
	 - [ ] [Random Player](../roll/random-player.md) overhears an argument between [Earl Nolthe Torbogenfällt](../../../creature/unique/npc/govern/wounded-coast/torbogenfallt-nolthe.md) and [Huntmaster Stanislav Utěkal](../../../creature/unique/npc/trade/wounded-coast/utekal-stanislav.md) when they have to go to the washroom during breakfast.
	 - [ ] [Random Player](../roll/random-player.md) overhears two men, Liam Olbrich and Abraham Lang, sitting at nearby table in aristocratic clothing talking about a ritual which is about 3/4 complete.
		 - If confronted, the two men deny the accusation. If pressed, they'll threaten legitimate repercussions to slandering nobility.
		 - If asked for their names, they'll give them freely, unless accused.
		 - If followed, they'll suddenly turn a corner and teleport to the ritual site using a scroll of teleport.
		 - If the scrolls are stolen, another less conspicuous conspirator will spot the theft and message the nobles. They'll then demand the scrolls back, threatening a violent arrest in case the party refuses.
 - [ ] Morning
	 - The festival games are closed, but there are a few official sports matches happening through the day. The competitors are representatives of different nearby city-states. Only a couple are happening in the morning.
		 - Strongman competition
			 - [ ] One competitor tears his pectoral muscle.
			 - [ ] DC 18 Perception check to notice Archibald greasing the equipment after his run.
				 - If Stanislav learns this, he places higher than Archibald.
				 - If the tourney officials learn this, they'll check the equipment and clean it, but no proof will be found against Archibald.
				 - If announced to the stands at large, Archibald will request a duel of honour with his accuser. The duel will take place the next day 4 miles south of town and each duelist will chose a second. This duel is fated to be cancelled since Archibald will have died in the fire as he is crushed beneath a metal beam.
		 - Archery competition
			 - [ ] One competitor, a miss Dorothe Kohrig, misses the target entirely. On closer inspection, it becomes obvious that she is inebriated.
				 - If the party members follow up on this, they'll learn that she was drugged at breakfast, but there are no clues as to who did it.
			 - [ ] Two competitors escalate what is obviously a rivalry, as the first of the two to compete, a miss Britta Lotz, points at the other after each shot. She scores two bullseyes and 26 points out of 30 on the last shot. The second rival, a miss Katarina Mitter, becomes visibly frustrated when she scores 27 points on the first shot. On the second, she pumps her fist after scoring a bullseye. When she scores 28 points out of 30 on the final shot, she throws a tantrum, snapping her bow in half and throwing it harmlessly at the first rival before stomping off the field.
	 - The party members are free to talk to any of the people they've met.
		 - [Earl Nolthe Torbogenfällt](../../../creature/unique/npc/govern/wounded-coast/torbogenfallt-nolthe.md) attends the archery competition
		 - [Mother Wilhelmina Yrstrone](../../../creature/unique/npc/faith/wounded-coast/yrstrone-wilhelmina.md) is cleaning up after breakfast and seeing to injuries in either of the competitions. Closer to noon, she will be organizing entrance and seating for people attending the main event.
		 - [Huntmaster Stanislav Utěkal](../../../creature/unique/npc/trade/wounded-coast/utekal-stanislav.md) is participating in the strongman competition.
		 - [Ilske Dietingen](../../../creature/unique/npc/trade/wounded-coast/dietingen-ilske.md) is cleaning up after guests at L'Arc Petite.
 - [ ] Before the ceremony at noon
	 - [ ] People crowd around the building to enter.
	 - [ ] Doors open every 200 ft around the building.
	 - [ ] Designated clerics guide people to their seats.
	 - [ ] Important people sit in the first 3 rows of seats.
		 - [Earl Nolthe Torbogenfällt](../../../creature/unique/npc/govern/wounded-coast/torbogenfallt-nolthe.md)
		 - [Mother Wilhelmina Yrstrone](../../../creature/unique/npc/faith/wounded-coast/yrstrone-wilhelmina.md)
		 - Mayor Ibram Woln, from Wickerpool
		 - Alderman Nuthra Surina, from Wickerpool
		 - Marchioness Andrea Thorne, from Maplecove
	 - [ ] Have each player group roll d%. This represents how far they are from the front of the cathedral.
 - [ ] The main event
	 - [ ] As noon gets closer, designated clerics cast thaumaturgy to count down the tens of minutes, then minutes, then tens of seconds, and finally seconds until noon.
	 - [ ] Until 5 minutes before noon, there are ceremonial singing and performances being performed.
	 - [ ] Ten seconds before noon, have all party members roll DC 30 Wis (Perception) to spot Arcundus teleporting into the shadows of an arch near the front of the hall.
	 - [ ] Five seconds before noon, have all party members roll DC 16 Wis (Perception) to smell smoke or spot the fire just above the entrance to the cathedral.
	 - [ ] At noon, the lights appear, but unlike any Sunspark festival before, the lights are a deep red and are more foreboding than heavenly. If none of the party members noticed the fire, someone screams from the rear of the cathedral to alert them.
	 - [ ] The party rolls initiative. They have 3 goals:
		 - [ ] Lead the people out of the cathedral
			 - DC 13
			 - +2 Str (Athletics), Wis (Insight, Medicine, Perception, Survival), Cha
			 - -2 Dex, Int (Investigate)
			 - Successes
				 - 1 - 4: 20(n)% of the occupants have been saved, up to 100% minus the current amount of dead occupants according to the failures. If all living occupants have been rescued, this challenge ends.
				 - 3: The party members working on this task are recognized as heroes by the survivors. +2 to lead the people out of the cathedral.
				 - 5: 90% of the occupants have been saved, up to 100% minus the current amount of dead occupants according to the failures. If all living occupants have been rescued, this challenge ends.
				 - 6: 95% of the occupants have been saved, up to 100% minus the current amount of dead occupants according to the failures. If all living occupants have been rescued, this challenge ends.
				 - 7: 98% of the occupants have been saved, up to 100% minus the current amount of dead occupants according to the failures. If all living occupants have been rescued, this challenge ends.
				 - 8: 99% of the occupants have been saved, up to 100% minus the current amount of dead occupants according to the failures. If all living occupants have been rescued, this challenge ends.
				 - 9: 100% of the occupants have been saved, up to 100% minus the current amount of dead occupants according to the failures. This challenge ends.
			 - Failures:
				 - 1: Jacqueline Sachs, a brown-eyed brunette middle aged mother of two who worked as a manager at the town general store dies when the floor collapses under her and a pew falls on her, crushing her skull. 3% of the occupants of the cathedral at the start of the fire have died. If all other occupants have been rescued, this challenge ends. If this fate is avoided, Jacqueline provides the party a 20% discount on goods and services purchased at the general store.
				 - 2: Mayor Ibram Woln, a sharp-eyed career politician from Wickerpool dies when one of the chains holding up a chandelier above her snaps. The oil held in the chandelier pours onto her and catches on fire, burning her alive. Wickerpool will hold an election when news of her death reaches the city and Alderman Nuthra Surina will be elected to replace her. 8% of the occupants of the cathedral at the start of the fire have died. If this fate is avoided, she will personally provide accommodations and protections inside the city of Wickerpool, guaranteeing the safety of the party members regardless of their actions in the city.
				 - 3: Mother Wilhelmina, a heavy-set and eternally cheerful leader of the monastery is found dead, having passed away due to smoke inhalation. Her ash-and-char-coated corpse will later be extricated from the rubble and she will become venerated as a martyr and a saint. Parts of her body and belongings will be cut up and passed around the world as holy relics. In the aftermath of the fire, the monastic order of the arches disbands. It will take 4 years before another organization takes control of L'Arc Chantante if it still stands. 15% of the occupants of the cathedral at the start of the fire have died. If all other occupants have been rescued, this challenge ends. If this fate is avoided, she will provide housing to the party in the monastery dorms.
				 - 4: Huntmaster Stanislav, a tall broad shouldered man known for his feats of adventuring prowess and great strength dies when a pair of Efreeti trap him between two Walls of Fire and burn him alive. The survivors' and townsfolk's opinion of the party sours. While within the town or while talking to someone related to a survivor of the fire, party members have a 50% chance of taking disadvantage on Cha (Persuasion, Bluff) checks except to convince those people that a party member has performed an evil deed. 25% of the occupants of the cathedral at the start of the fire have died. If all other occupants have been rescued, this challenge ends. If this fate is avoided, Stanislav will later grant each member of the party lifetime membership to his guild.
				 - 5+: An additional 10% of the occupants of the cathedral at the start of the fire have died. If all other occupants have been rescued, this challenge ends.
			 - Turns:
				 - 1 - 6: Minimum 7n% of the occupants have been saved, up to 100% minus the current amount of dead occupants according to the failures. If all living occupants have been rescued, this challenge ends.
				 - 2: Someone panics, and people start pushing and rushing for the doors.
				 - 4+: Smoke inhalation is becoming a severe problem for those who haven't escaped the fire. -2 to all checks other than Wis (Medicine), but +2 to Wis (Medicine) until the end of the challenge.
				 - 6: The exits have collapsed. -4 to any check that isn't Str (Athletics) until the next success.
		 - [ ] Investigate the cause of the fire before the culprits escape
			 - DC 15
			 - +2 Dex (Stealth, Acrobatics), Int (Investigation), Wis (Perception), Cha (Deception, Persuasion)
			 - -2 Str, Cha (Intimidate)
			 - Successes:
				 - 1: Hooded figures were seen gathering near the abandoned dorms, but disappeared before 11:00.
				 - 2: [Earl Nolthe Torbogenfällt](../../../creature/unique/npc/govern/wounded-coast/torbogenfallt-nolthe.md) went to investigate the sighting shortly before the figures disappeared, and didn't reappear until 11:55.
				 - 3: There's evidence of a scroll of Gate having been used to call the elementals from the Plane of Fire. It was cast moments before the fire was first spotted.
				 - 4: The caster who caused the fire doesn't breath or bleed and they don't experience pain. A DC 10 Int (Religion) check confirms that the caster must be undead.
				 - 5: The caster appears to have been in a state of panic as they cast the spell.
				 - 6: The caster appears to be a male human and someone of high social standing. You have a rendering of their footprints to compare against if you gain access to a suspects' footwear. This skill challenge ends.
			 - Failures:
				 - 1: An essential clue is overlooked. -2 to future checks to investigate the cause.
				 - 2: A key witness is found dead. -4 to future checks to investigate the cause.
				 - 3: You follow a red herring, wasting time. The party member that triggered this failure misses their next turn.
				 - 4: You've lost the trail. This skill challenge ends.
			 - Turns:
				 - 0: The occupants of the cathedral are somewhat unafraid. Their gossip makes the investigation easier. Ignore failures until the next turn event.
				 - 1 - 3: Panic has beset the occupants of the cathedral, Int (Investigation), Wis (Perception), and Cha (Deception, Persuasion) checks take a -2 penalty, but Dex (Stealth) gains a +2 bonus until the next turn event.
				 - 3+: Clues burn away into smoke and ash. 50% chance each turn to gain a failure.
				 - 4+: Smoke inhalation is becoming a severe problem for those who haven't escaped the fire. -2 to all checks until the end of the challenge.
		 - [ ] Minimize the damage
			 - DC 15
			 - +2 Con (Athletics), Cha (Persuasion), Int (Investigation), Wis (Survival)
			 - -3 Dex, Wis (Perception), Cha (Deception)
			 - Successes:
				 - 1 - 19: The fire can be fought. The people are encouraged. +1 to checks to lead the people out of the cathedral.
				 - 3 - (8n-5) - 19: Elementals approach the party. 1d3-1 magmins, 20% chance of a smoke mephit, and 1d4-2 magma mephits. Stop the challenge to fight the elementals.
				 - 20: The fire is out. End the 'Lead the people out of the cathedral' skill challenge and enact all remaining success events in that challenge.
			 - Failures:
				 - 0: The cathedral will be repaired over the next few decades. The party cannot identify the Themesian gate from the burned building.
				 - 1: The cathedral can be rebuilt, but it will take a century or more. The party does not automatically identify the Themesian gate from the remains of the building and the DC to do so during the investigation is DC 20.
				 - 3: The cathedral will never be rebuilt, but the charred ruins hide the Themesian gate from the party. The DC to identify the gate during the investigation is DC 16. End the 'Investigate the cause of the fire before the culprits escape' skill challenge.
				 - 5: The cathedral will never be rebuilt. The outline of the Themesian gate is one of the more obvious remaining standing structures. At this point, have the party make a DC 14 Int (History) check to recall the [Five Errant Gates](../../../item/magic/5-errant-gates.md) and identify this as one of them. The cathedral collapses. End the 'Lead the people out of the cathedral' skill challenge and enact all remaining failure events in that challenge.
				 - 7: The cathedral has been burned to little more than ashes. The Themesian gate is the one thing that remains standing. At this point, have the party make a DC 12 Int (History) check to recall the [Five Errant Gates](../../../item/magic/5-errant-gates.md) and identify this as one of them.
			 - Turns (init 10):
				 - 3: The flames have spread. -2 to checks to lead the people out of the Cathedral. Mark one failure on this challenge.
				 - 4: The flames have spread. -2 to checks to investigate the cause of the fire.
				 - 5: The flames have spread. -2 to checks to lead the people out of the Cathedral. Mark one failure on this challenge.
				 - 6: The flames have spread. -2 to checks to investigate the cause of the fire.
				 - 7+: The flames have spread. -2 to checks to lead the people out of the Cathedral. Mark one failure on this challenge.

## Post-Session Notes

- 
