---
title: 11. A Burning Hot Exchange
---
The alchemist Jean-Luc Gigot (nickname is Pierre) was bested by Pamplemousse.

- No party member has seen him in person, but Pamplemousse and Mr. Sacks are aware of his general proportions.
- Needs reconstructive magic (regeneration) after nearly dying in a fire caused by inflammable gas
- Has promised Pamplemousse to pursue him romantically. He promised to bring a rose to him.
- Pamplemousse (disguise self'd as an as yet unnamed cultist) and Mr. Sacks (disguise self'd as a helmed horror) had trapped themselves within the basement of the cult meeting space (an out of the way warehouse), which was sealed with a trip wire trap that closed the metal secret door behind them, barred it, and melted the hinges and locks closed with thermite.
- After trying to break down the door for a minute or so, Jean-Luc arrived and began silently flooding the room with inflammable gas.
- They negotiated and Pamplemousse tried to bluff his way out, but was caught in a couple of provable lies.
- Jean-Luc offered one last chance to talk their way out, and asked them what his name was, and Pamplemousse guessed "Pierre", to which Jean-Luc responded with a soft chuckle.
- Jean-Luc proceeded to pump the room with more gas.
- Mr. Sacks sealed the doorway to prevent more gas coming into the stairway, which led to the gas building up in the vestibule before the secret door. Pamplemousse used mage hand to take a flintstick from Jean-Luc and ignite the trapped inflammable gas.
- Jean-Luc has a thick French accent.
- Jean-Luc is rich as fuck.

Pamplemousse and Mr. Sacks went to rescue Mehen and Grum at the Temble University History Department Offices.

- Lexard "Lex" Croon is the name of the mage in the hallway.
- Pamplemousse told a convincing enough lie to get the bandit captains to let him and Mr. Sacks into the building, but they didn't know the password to be let in. One of the bandit captains is going to fetch Lex to talk with him.
- Password is "Fimble Improvement"
- Mr. Sacks is not under orders to follow the directions of the criminals, but pretending to do so, was instructed to receive orders from Lex
- Mehen and Grum are being kept unconscious due to hp damage to prevent escape attempts.