***This page is for the gamemaster only.***
## Quick Notes

- Gnomes are biological constructs
- Gnomes create other gnomes by magical construction
- A gnome requires an artificial soul to function. This soul is created by imprinting the soul of another being (usually the gnome's non-gnomish best friend).
- If a gnome's soul is created from an imprint of another gnome's soul, it becomes a svirfneblin, and it itself is incapable of creating gnomes.
- Kami are everywhere, but they're more observable and able to interact with the physical world closer to the heart of the forest.

## Pre-Session Notes

- Have [Earl Nolthe Torbogenfällt](torbogenfallt-nolthe.md) make up with [Huntmaster Stanislav Utěkal](utekal-stanislav.md)
- Have a tearful goodbye from [Mother Wilhelmina Yrstrone](yrstrone-wilhelmina.md)
- have Arcundus grant a vial containing a single deific hair (A reliquary of Arcundus) to prove your association with her. Any ordained member of her faith or gate protector can identify it as a sign of her favour by casting detect magic. Anyone who tries to steal it will have hold person cast on them (DC 25 Wis save or paralyzed)
- Describe the journey: 

> Arcundus steps a little ways back from the group. She smiles, then slowly spins where she stands, taking three graceful steps. At first, she faces you, smiling, then turns her head to the left as her right leg crosses over her left. On the next step, she puts her back to you, before returning to face you on the last. As she does this, she sweeps her cloak across the flagstones, leaving a puddle of inky black. After a second glance, you notice speckles of light in the pitch black circle, like stars in the night sky. She steps forward, out of the circle of night, and says, "For as long as I've existed, people have looked to the sky and wondered at the paths of the celestial bodies. The truth is, the only way anyone or anything gets anywhere in the material plane is by falling through the cosmos."
> She stretches her arms out in front of her and slightly to the side. Then she shifts her weight behind her over the black void at her feet. By doing so without moving those feet, she begins to fall backwards, but she does so as easily and as comfortably as falling into a bed of silken sheets and downy pillows. She beckons you to follow her with a hand gesture as she does so, before gently pushing off from the ledge with her feet and falling into the void. At that point, she doesn't disappear, but only seems to fall further and further away, faster and faster until she's too far away to make out.

> Taking the plunge is harder than you anticipated. It is outside of human nature to choose to fall like this. You stumble in some small way and have to correct course. You make this small mistake, but you fall anyway. As you pass through the puddle of black and starlight, it becomes a circle of blue sky above you, but that slowly disappears into the distance.
> It's also not in human nature to experience weightlessness. Your stomach is the first thing you notice, as it shifts upwards, almost seeming to reach your throat. But as the seconds pass, you notice a similar feeling all around your body as your limbs The stars around you are all foreign, as if someone had painted a perfect picture of another world's night sky

- Describe the town (Scout-hearth)
- Have the party establish themselves
  - Local expedition contact (Professor Ingleberry, gnome historian)
  - Lodgings
- Complex Skill Challenge: Locate the Gate of Five Scripts
  - Challenge 1: Inquire with the Locals
  - Challenge 2: Investigate Local Records
  - Challenge 3: Prepare to Search the [Mihrttal Expanse](docs/place/state/mihrttal/index.md)
  - Unlockable Challenge 4: Search the [Mihrttal Expanse](docs/place/state/mihrttal/index.md)
  - Unlockable Challenge 5: Stop the Cultists

## Post Session Notes

- 
